Okay! In this video, we are going to look
at installing MySQL Workbench on OS X.
I have brought up the MySQL website.
You can see there on the screen. This
is like the main page for MySQL
Workbench. Version 6.3 is current and at
the time of recording. If there's
something newer, go ahead
and use that. You might see some
differences in screens but it is a
pretty stable product. So, I don't
expect this will again evolve too much going
forward. But, they may change things on us.
So, I'm going to come in here and click
on the Download Now button. You can see
this takes me to the downloads page.
I want to use macOS, or OS X, as I like
to say. This can bring down an archive
that I will be able to use. I'm going to
click download, and you'll see the screen
here, it's asking you to setup an Oracle
account. You do not need to do that. You
can come in here and say no thanks just
start my download. That kind of hide
it at the bottom, making you think that
you need an account, but you actually
don't. So, I'm going to go say no thanks just
start my download. You can see that
this is downloading. It goes by pretty
quick. I'm going to be able to click on
this guy right here, launch it. It
will bring it up and will complete the
installation process here, so it goes
through verifying the image. If
you're familiar with OS X, you can see
this is pretty standard stuff. So, I'm
just going to click and drag this into
applications. You can see that it
does should copy it over. You can see, I have
quite a few applications here. There
is the MySQL Workbench app. I'm going to
go ahead and launch that. You can see the
first time that we launch it, we're going to
get a warning that says that we just
downloaded it from the internet. We know
that we did this. We can see that came
from dev.mysql.com, and we can say
safely open that just a little security
warning from
my Mac OS, or OS X as many people like to
say. I still say OS X, but I think Apple is
official calling it Mac OS. Now, you
can see the initial screen here, and you can see
MySQL connections. You might not have
this. It's probably because I've used it
before. You may need to add a localhost.
So, I think you will. So, if you just go in
and add in a hostname of 127.0.0.1
and port 3306, username
of root and we'll go ahead and store it
in a keychain. Now, I'm going to cancel
this and use my existing connection.
It's asking me for that. I
believe this is going to be your operating
system password to take it off the
keychain. So now, we've gone ahead and
opened up the MySQL editor. A couple
couple things here, we can see we have a
variety of things to look at here. We
have the server status. You can see information
about the MySQL server and this is for
my system running the current version
and versions that I have installed. So,
yours might be slightly different. We
can see things like clients and
connections. There are connections
out there. These are processes that are
going to be running by the MySQL server.
One of them is ours. So, what you see may
be different depending on what's going
on in the system users. We just have that
root and then these two mysaql.
accounts, which you should never have to
log into, so don't worry about those.
We will be getting into data import and
export so later. Then, you have
administration functions, which we will
be exploring later in the course.
The important thing here is the
schemas. Only sys is shown. Remember, we
had a mysql schema displayed before. It
looks like that
in the GUI tool. They are filtering out
some of the low-lying schemas, so we will
be creating schemas in the future.
Just a slight terminology change, when we
were on the command line, they were
called databases. In
here, they're called schemas. So, same
thing. Slightly different concept but
just effectively the same thing. So, this
is going to be effectively a separate
database or schema that we will be
looking at. Don't don't worry if
you're confused. We will be exploring
this for you in the course going forward.
But here, we have the sys schema. We
can see here, if I expand out, this has a
number of tables in here. I can come in
here. We should be able to double
click on that. I thought I could. Select
rows. There we go. I just did a select
row. So, that shows me what's in
that table. And again, we do have a MySQL
schema but this is being hidden from us.
So, you can see here it did select star
from sys dot sys config. If I change
this to mysql dot users, remember we did this
from the command line before, run that,
it doesn't exist. I thought that
would work. I took a brief pause there
to look and see what it's doing wrong.
I'm actually doing user rather than
than users. So now, we get that data. I
also took a quick look at some of the
options here. Something I had not
noticed before, if we have this here, the
system, only the sys, if I come up here to
file,
I'm sorry preferences, if I go to the SQL
editor, and we have show metadata and
internal schemas, I click there and say
ok, and then come over here and refresh,
now we see that mysql schema is actually
showing our database. As we said before,
when we're with command-line. So, these
are internal schemas that are going to
be used by the MySQL database. There are
some useful things in there, but
generally, you should not be playing in
here for general databases. We will
create our own schemas and utilize those
and kind of segment that off. So, these
are things that are internal to MySQL.
If you go in there and start
changing data, you can really cause
yourself a lot of headaches to the point
of corrupting the database and making it
unusable. So, definitely do not be playing
in the side of these schemas if you do
not know what you're doing. So, just a
word of advise. These is
from experience. The would be honest. But, going
forward in the course, we will be
creating our own schemas and populating
data in those and using those. I will
show you how to use, do this step by step
coming up in the course.